-Heli 30. this is U05.
-Heli 30 responding.
We have a report of a car
matching last week's getaway vehicle.
Blue Ford Taunus.
license plate November Victor 34550.
We lost visual contact one minute ago.
heading north towards Marienlyst.
We're attempting to locate the car.
Copy. We're heading there.
Thanks.
Hi. boss.
Where?
Heli 30. Going east on Marienlyst Street.
I think he's seen us.
He's picked up speed.
-Hi. Tom.
-Are you in a hurry?
The lunatic from the robbery.
The getaway car has been spotted.
Will I see you later?
I'll call you.
-Harry. wait!
-U05 to all units in areas 2 and 3.
Look out for a blue Ford Taunus.
license plate November Victor 34550.
Bravo 41 responding.
It's our case. we're on our way.
Bravo 42. we're 150 meters behind.
heading toward the Majorstua intersection.
Easy! Take it easy!
It's 10 o'clock. This is the news.
More people are demanding
that the police carry firearms.
as Oslo now has
more illegal weapons than ever before.
and it seems that a gang related conflict
is about to escalate in the suburbs.
And over to other news.
the heat wave continues in Oslo.
It reached 31 degrees yesterday.
-Helge?
-Yes?
"The person with the highest authority
will open the vault
and put the money in the black bag.
He has 30 seconds.
If it takes any longer.
the person reading this will be shot."
-Twenty-seven…
-Yes…
-Twenty-six…
-Wait.
-Twenty seconds left.
-Yes. hold on. I have to…
Seventeen…
The green tape. Helge.
Hold on. hold on. hold on.
Seven.
Five.
-Two. Helge!
-Yes! Listen. I just have to…
-I have to open the other lock.
-Two. Helge!
-Yes. yes. yes!
Here.
It took six seconds too long.
Harry?
-What the hell are you doing?
-I'm working. boss.
That bank robbery happened
more than five years ago.
So?
It doesn't help anyone
reopening that case. especially not you.
Okay.
Ellen? I need someone with people skills.
Come on. The biometry expert is here.
The one on loan
from Forensics in Stockholm.
You were supposed to handle that.
-Me?
-I told you.
No. I just thought that you were kidding.
I don't have…
People skills? Social competence?
Leadership abilities?
Can you just… get a grip. okay?
Try to deal with normal people. for once.
-Come on.
-Hi. Beate. Harry.
-Lønn. Beate Lønn.
-Hi. Harry.
-Ellen Gjelten.
-So you're Swedish?
Yeah. Uh…
That's not… Is it a problem?
No. I don't have anything
against Swedes… in general.
Hey.
You're trying out for Delta. right?
It's 270 out of 300. Tough requirements.
Hey. could I show you something?
Yes. please.
Okay. stand like you were before.
So… this looks like shit.
Back up the right leg. widen your stance.
Lean forward a bit.
And relax your shoulders.
-Relax.
-Yeah.
Control your breathing.
No thoughts. no feelings.
Nothing exists but the target.
Sink into the target.
Breathe. Fire.
Fire.
Lower the gun.
Look. You can do it.
Let me know if you need help.
TOM WAALER
DETECTIVE
That is a Ceska zbrojovka.
They've been rare in Oslo.
but Narcotics seized one yesterday.
They found it during a raid in a garage
on the east side.
Owned by Sverre Olsen.
We knew he was a drug dealer.
but apparently. he's been selling arms.
and has two bank robberies on his record.
So now. you think Olsen
is the bank robber?
No one had ever heard of
a Ceska in Oslo before that robbery.
so either the robber is Olsen himself.
or he sold the Ceska and knows who it is.
Yeah. I guess we'll have to find Olsen.
But hey. you said you needed
someone with people skills?
Yeah.
Look at this.
He gets her to talk. so he won't be
identified by a voice analysis. Look.
Look at her reaction. What is he saying?
To me. it looks like he's telling her
that he's going to shoot her.
and she can't believe it.
-It was senseless. He had the money.
-Twelve years in prison instead of 21.
What do you think?
The report assumed that…
He wanted to show
that he was willing to kill.
so that the police units
in the area wouldn't follow.
but wait for the Delta team…
So you've read the report?
Then. you should know that during
the car chase. one of our cars…
crashed.
Yeah. Coordinate with Narcotics.
I'll go check Sverre Olsen's garage.
Uh. yeah. but weren't you… yeah.
Why don't you take the elevator? It's hot.
I just fucking love stairs.
Hole ran down the stairs
in 30 degree heat. Did something happen?
He got a lead on a Sverre Olsen
after the arms seizure yesterday.
But Narcotics have got it handled.
Why is he messing around with that?
I don't know. Ask him.
Don't give up. boys.
Hi!
-Hey. you.
-Hi.
I saw you called.
So… I've got an appointment
with the therapist today.
so I'll be a bit late
for dinner with you and Oleg.
Oh. But that's good.
When will we see you?
Well. can't you guys just eat.
and I'll be there later?
Yeah. no problem.
Could you pick up a bottle of wine?
Yeah. uh…
Yeah. are you sure? It's not…
No. no. hey…
It'll be a willpower exercise.
Thanks.
I love you.
And you love me.
Bye.
ROY KVINSVIK RACING
Is he here?
Sverre?
Yeah?
Where else would he be?
At the other place. I guess.
Where's the other place?
Fuck. the cops are here again.
Stop the car!
Stop the car.
Where is Sverre Olsen's other place?
Don't say anything. Roy.
The police can't carry firearms.
-He can't threaten you with a weapon…
-No. I know. okay?
I'm not saying shit.
Three hundred?
That's enough for an extra quarter. right?
He's not allowed to bribe either.
Fine.
-Five hundred?
-Fuck. what are you. deaf?
Stop it.
A thousand.
Yeah… I only have 800.
Sverre Olsen.
No. No.
Under the bridge at Schou's Square.
Hey!
You're completely right.
I'm not allowed to bribe you.
And I've promised my girl
to buy some wine.
Hey. Are you looking for someone?
-Sverre.
-He's not here today.
But I have a lot of pretty great stuff.
It's okay. it's okay. It's okay.
-He's looking for me. What do I do?
-Listen.
We have a cabin up in Nordmarka.
I'll send you a location.
Listen to me. They took the weapons.
I need money.
We'll cover the weapons.
You'll stay at that cabin.
Don't speak to anyone
until we've got you out of the country.
From then on. we might use you
as a courier when we need more.
-More? Are you planning to start a war?
-Yes.
-Against whom?
-Against people like you.
Fusiform gyrus.
It's the part of the brain
that recognizes faces.
And you've had this all your life?
Yeah. I mean. we all have fusiform gyrus.
It's in the brain.
But mine has always been
a little more developed.
So. literally speaking. you can recognize
every face in
the Swedish criminal records?
Yeah. And the Norwegian one.
It was sent to me before I got here.
so I looked through it.
That's many thousands of faces.
-Yeah. it is a little freaky. I guess.
-No!
What's it like working with Harry Hole?
Harry…
I mean… Yeah.
you might as well hear everything.
There are rumors about Harry.
That he got wasted
and killed a colleague in a car accident.
That he has a bottle of whiskey
in his inner pocket
to prove to himself that he doesn't drink.
Harry is the best.
he's just not good at everything else.
He's just…
…not that interested in shining.
like certain others.
Hi. Beate.
-Hi.
-I heard rumors you were coming.
-Crazy that we both ended up here.
-Crazy.
So you two know each other. I see?
You could say that.
Is today your first day?
It's always a bit nerve-wracking
on your first day at work.
By the way. I heard that you and Harry
are looking into Sverre Olsen?
Yes. that's right. Why?
Just let me know if you need any help.
-Thanks. I'll let Harry know.
-Okay.
See you around.
How do you know him?
He was my instructor
at the Police Academy.
So that was… a few years ago.
Are you okay?
Yeah. yeah. Yeah.
But I think I have to get back to work.
-Yeah. bye.
-Bye.
Fuck!
Even if I could buy this.
it's not worth as much as you may hope.
But it is a diamond. right?
Yeah. of mediocre quality.
The red color is caused
by uncrystallized carbon.
which makes it less clear than you want.
-How much can you give me?
-Well…
I'm assuming you don't have
a certificate for it?
Right. Looks like a blood diamond to me.
Are you buying it or not?
No. like I said. I can't take it.
STÅLE AUNE
PSYCHOLOGIST
Hi. my name is Harry.
and I'm an alcoholic.
And that was so hard for you to say
that you stopped going there?
It works for many. it's just…
You'd rather come here.
We work together. so…
Why now?
You've been sober
for a long time. haven't you?
Yeah… I've met someone.
I knew it.
I knew you'd never buy
such an expensive wine for yourself.
And when you came in the door.
I could hardly recognize you.
"He looks like a perfectly normal.
happy human being."
Yeah. I'd just rather be safe than sorry.
-I don't want to fuck it up.
-No.
I heard that you've been at it again.
looking at videos of the bank robbery.
It might be
that if you'd solved the case quicker.
there'd have been no accident.
And maybe you're thinking
that Lars would have been alive.
It's been five years. Harry.
You have to move on.
What does this have to do
with the fact that I've met someone?
You're saying
that you don't want to fuck it up.
And what is it
that always fucks it up for you?
Your self-loathing.
You think that's why I drink?
What do you think?
I drink because I'm thirsty.
And I'm always thirsty.
It's been two years. three months
and seven days since I last had a drink.
but I was shaking
when I went to buy this one.
And then you came here.
thinking I have the answer?
No. I guess I came here
to hear myself say what I just said.
-Isn't that what you're here for?
-Okay. That's reassuring.
You have five minutes left.
if there's anything
you'd like to ask or tell or…
-Hey.
-Hey. looking good.
Hey. Oleg.
Oleg. say hi.
-Yeah…
-I don't know if this one…
No. I can drink this.
-What's that old game called again. Mom?
-Tetris.
-Tetris or Tetris?
I've told him
that your record was 17.559 points.
I beat that easily. I got 18.000.
We'll see about that. old man.
How's it going?
No informant knows where he is.
so I asked Narcotics
to send footage from the garage
to see if I could recognize anybody.
but the quality is so low that…
He's a convict.
Drugs.
Something Kvinsvik.
Also a convict. Drugs again.
These guys. they're customers.
They're in there
for maybe one or two minutes.
They probably do not know
where Sverre Olsen is.
This guy is in there for 20 minutes.
He knows something.
No. I don't think so.
Why not?
He would have told us.
Don't you see who it is?
He was worse with my last boyfriend.
He bought Oleg this Rosenborg jersey.
and Oleg just switched teams.
Started rooting for Molde instead.
He's not having
an easy time finding friends. so…
He's just scared he's going to lose me.
He's under no obligation to accept me.
If you and I are…
Are what?
If you and I are going to keep this going…
…Oleg himself has to decide
who I'll be or not be for him.
You know what the ladies
at the police HQ always said about you?
No. but I don't want to know either.
They said that no one can have
all of Harry Hole.
Because he loves his freedom too much.
-And?
-And I have no interest in that.
I want all of you.
or else there's no point.
So if that is a problem.
you should tell me now.
I just have to…
Talk to me.
Yeah…
Okay. Yes. Yes. I'm on my way.
Beate Lønn has identified the person
on the surveillance footage
from Sverre Olsen's garage.
It's Tom Waaler!
Yeah. and what is Waaler saying?
I haven't talked to him.
He's not at work.
and he's not picking up the phone.
Hey… I'll pick you up.
and we'll go to his place.
Did she say anything
about how sure she was?
-Seventy percent.
-Okay.
She's pretty specific.
Yes. hello?
Hey. it's Ellen Gjelten.
can we come in please?
Is it important?
I'm in the middle of something.
It'll only take five minutes.
See you later. Sorry.
Hi.
Not bad for a police salary.
I got a pretty nice inheritance.
What do you guys want?
You've been in contact with Sverre Olsen.
-I thought that case was with Narcotics.
-Yes. that's right.
But why haven't you told us about this?
What's this?
It's you.
What?
-Our analysis says that this is you.
-What analysis?
What were you doing there?
And why have you kept it a secret?
What are you doing?
Are you saying that this isn't you?
You're coming here. accusing a colleague
because you've pulled out pictures
from a recognition software
that's wrong 90% of the time.
This isn't from some software. Tom.
So then what…
Did Beate Lønn convince you
that she sees things others can't see?
Beate Lønn does see things
that others don't.
You should know that we had a relationship
that didn't end like she wanted.
Oh. really?
And that's why you think
she's lying now. or?
It's happened before.
So if we look into where you were
when that footage was taken. you were…
I'm either here or at work.
That's where I am.
Did Lucas and the others go on holiday?
I don't know.
Is that guy coming back?
You can say his name.
I don't know.
It… depends on how late it gets.
Did you give him a key?
No.
I can't deal with him sleeping here.
He can sleep at home.
Okay.
Oleg?
-It's okay.
-Thank you.
It has to be Waaler in that picture.
I'm not saying that Beate Lønn is lying.
but what. 70%? That's two out of three.
Of course. if they do have a history.
it's not that odd that he pops up
in her head either.
No. but I trust Beate Lønn
more than I trust Tom Waaler.
How did it go
with the therapist. by the way?
Aune thinks I have commitment issues.
-Oh. he says that. does he?
-Yep.
He says that it's because I
lost my mom when I was a kid. and that
my first girlfriend killed herself.
and then… yeah. that car accident.
So then… then.
I'd rather choose to be alone.
And then. I choose… to numb myself.
Psycho-babble.
Oh Christ. but that's how it is. Harry.
Love. God fucking damn it.
Sometimes. it feels so fucking fated
that it's going to hell.
so you just walk around.
hoping that the crash will happen soon.
so you can just get it over with.
Is it over?
He was a scumbag. like you've been saying
from the start. And I'm okay. it's just…
What did you do?
Did you throw a chair again?
No. I actually didn't. Not this time.
Even though he deserved it this time too.
Thank God we humans
actually get through stuff.
Despite everything. We do survive.
No. we don't.
No. we just fall apart
a little slower or a little quicker.
You're so broken.
By Sunday.
you're going to show Rakel Fauke
that you love her at least three times.
Can you do that?
Have a good rehearsal.
Yes. I love you too.
-Bye.
Three times. Hole! Three times!
INVESTIGATION REPORT
BANK ROBBERY AT MAJORSTUA
Let me introduce myself.
I am the creature you hoped didn't exist.
I am the one who crawls out from
under your bed when you've fallen asleep.
The one who sits down on your chest.
puts the bit in your mouth.
and rides you.
Rides you all the way to Hell.
-Hi. boss. What's up?
-Hey. Boris.
I'd like a quarter or two.
Can't you take some from your own stash?
-They raided the garage. didn't you hear?
-Shit. Where will I get powder from now?
No. hey. I'll be back soon.
so don't get a new supplier just yet.
I'll send you a location.
Get here as soon as you can.
Yeah. okay.
Not a word to anyone
about my whereabouts. okay?
What the hell?
It's in the middle of the woods!
-Do you have the cash?
-I'll pay you later.
No.
No?
You're the one who taught me that.
Call me when you've got the cash.
Boris? Boris…
Fucking hell!
Thanks for coming with us.
No worries.
No. I know
that this isn't exactly… your thing.
What? Saturday in the park?
It doesn't get any better than this.
We're happy that you're here.
-Does anyone want an ice cream?
-Yeah.
-I can get it.
-No. no. no. I'll get it.
I'm gonna go.
You guys can try to talk to each other.
That's what people do.
His name is Boris Koupich.
And what we know here at Narcotics.
is at least
that he's sold drugs for Sverre Olsen.
I'll send you a picture of him.
so you can see what he looks like.
and you'll owe me one.
Plus the repair of that chair you threw.
Boris Koupich? Where is Sverre Olsen?
Stop!
Just tell me where he is.
PLAYER: OLEG_7
SCORE: 1457
What did Mom mean
when she said it wasn't your thing?
Too much sun and too much noise.
Way too many people.
Have you tried the diving tower?
Heights aren't my thing.
You freeze?
When you've decided to jump.
and you're standing on the edge.
and you just can't move.
What do you know about that?
Well. I've frozen too.
Before you were going to jump?
No. not… not that. exactly.
I was going to save my baby sister.
How?
I think I was about 12.
We were taking the elevator.
And her hair got stuck
between the wall and the elevator
as it started.
And you froze?
Yeah.
Was she okay?
She was okay. she lost some hair. and…
Yeah. bled some. but she healed.
What about you?
I can't take elevators.
-You can't?
-No.
Listen.
If you jump off the ten-meter platform.
I'll take the elevator to the tenth floor.
No way.
-Talk to me.
-I think I know where Sverre Olsen is.
And now. I have a location reference
to a cabin in Nordmarka.
Are you coming. or what?
Yeah. hold on. I…
The Frogner Baths?
You're a family man today!
-Yeah. but I'll talk to…
-No. hey. my darling.
Seize the one opportunity that people
like us will get. Do you hear me?
-I'll check out the location.
-Fine. but hey…
-Don't do anything… I mean. no…
-No confrontation. no arrests.
I'm just going to check
if Boris told me the truth.
If Olsen is there. I'll call the boys
who are allowed to carry firearms.
-Yeah. call Delta. and then you call me.
-Yes. I'll do that.
Fine.
-Here.
-Thanks.
So. what did you talk about?
-The weather.
-About the weather?
-Yeah. that it's so fucking nice.
-Oleg…
Sorry.
It is fucking nice. though.
Olsen?
I need money.
-Or I'll tell everything.
-To?
The police. of course.
And you think that they'll give you money?
Maybe not.
But they'll reduce my sentence
to a few months.
Maybe I'll do it anyway.
Too bad for you. of course.
Arms trafficking
can get you four years. right?
And everything else.
I'll consider it. Olsen.
Mom. I don't want to be called
a wuss for the rest of my life.
I'm sure that you'll have done it
by the end of summer.
He will jump from ten meters
before the end of summer. right?
No. I don't think so.
-What do you mean?
-Maybe five. but not ten.
And why not?
Because it's high up.
-Have you jumped from ten meters?
-No. I haven't.
I did a death dive from seven meters once…
I did.
When?
Hey.
When I was your age.
I snuck in after they'd closed.
Why?
I didn't have to deal with others watching
as I chickened out and walked down.
No. it's fine. it's fine. Okay.
That was Eric. He's got a contract
right now that he needs help with.
It has to be submitted by Monday.
I need to do this now. Is that okay?
Sure.
-You guys can find something to do.
-We'll do that.
-Are you sure?
-Yeah. we'll manage.
Thank you.
…turn around
Dance for you and hop and skip and jump
Wishing you from the heart all good things
And tell me. what more do you want?
Congratulations
He's offered me
the Deputy Chief of Police position.
Wow. Congratulations.
I'll be recommending you
as the new Head of Criminal Police.
-Me?
-Yes. it's musical chairs.
-Yes. Head of Criminal Police.
-Here he is. Chief of Police.
Happy birthday.
-Hi.
Anyway. anyone in your department
who you think could take your chair?
Sure. Ellen Gjelten
has the best leadership skills.
She's great with people. has guts.
and she thinks outside the box.
But?
Tom Waaler is the most ambitious.
and he has
the highest clear-up rate after Hole.
So tell me about Waaler.
Well. Narcotics borrowed him
from Interpol in Brussels for a case.
I think he likes it here.
Then. he took the authorization course
at the Academy.
and transferred over to us.
Clever. tough.
Knows the system.
knows how to navigate within it.
But… you don't want Harry Hole?
No. I mean. I love Harry.
it's nothing like that. but…
I think it would be best
if we used him for just one thing.
He's not exactly a stickler for rules.
-Are you sure that we won't get caught?
-No. we won't get caught. Step on this.
Fuck.
I thought I'd seen this Lotus
at the police HQ.
Organized Crime. Isaksson. right?
You have a good memory. Waaler.
What are you doing here?
We got a tip.
We're looking for a guy
who could be in a cabin up there.
Need help? I run here all the time.
I know this place in and out.
No. we're just ticking a box.
It's pretty logical for him to be here.
Okay.
Nice tights.
Thanks.
Okay. see you around.
Seven meters feels…
higher than you'd think.
-But are you sure it's deep enough?
-There's only one way to find out.
It's deep enough.
Yes! Mine was better than yours. right?
No. no.
The point is to make the biggest splash.
So I'm the champion here.
Unless you jump from the ten-meter.
but we can do that next year.
The Prince.
Hello. Sverre.
Can I have some coffee?
Delta. Falkeid speaking.
Hello?
I hope you have something for me.
I sure do.
Wait a minute.
There.
Hi. this is Harry. Talk to me.
Should I do it?
Well… I don't really want
to lose to a kid. so…
I'll give you 50 kroner if you could
please postpone this 'til next year.
-A hundred.
-No. forget it. I'm on a police salary.
I'm going to turn around in three seconds.
And you know it doesn't count
if you don't have a witness.
Three.
Two.
One.
Loser.
Now you have to take the elevator.
-I will. Do you want to be a witness?
-No doubt.
Talk to me.
Hey. We're finished here.
What are you guys up to?
-We've gone fishing.
-Okay.
-I'll be there soon.
-Okay. we're nearly done here.
This is amazing. You're so damn good.
-Thank you.
-I'm sorry for ruining your Saturday.
-Could I buy you a drink?
-That's fine. We'll take a rain check.
Another time.
HARRY HOLE CALLING
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk to me.
What's the music called?
This is the Ramones.
-Heard it before?
-No.
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk--
What are we going to tell Mom?
That we didn't catch any fish.
That's lying.
Oh?
Did you catch any fish?
No.
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk--
No. no. no. no…
Tom? Tom. what are you doing?
Tom. what are you doing?
-Talk to me.
-What were you doing in the woods?
Fuck!
-Thanks.
-Yes. thank you.
-Hi. Mom.
-Hey! Did you have a nice time?
-Yeah.
-Yeah? Good.
-Yes?
-Hi. boss. it's me.
Listen. I've tried
to call Ellen a few times.
She's alone
on a potentially dangerous mission.
I don't know where she is.
-Alone? For fuck's sake. Harry…
-Yes. I know it's my responsibility.
Could you just authorize
tracking of her phone?
-Are you worried?
-I'm always worried. boss.
Okay. I'll take care of it.
Tom. nothing's happened yet. I promise.
Tom. listen to me.
I'll keep my mouth shut. I promise.
He'll keep his mouth shut.
He'll bleed out. We'll blame him.
Please. Hey. this isn't you.
This isn't you.
You're a good man. I promise.
I'll keep my mouth shut. I promise.
I don't want to do this.
You don't need to do it.
You haven't done it yet.
Tom. you haven't done it yet.
I'm so sorry.
No. it's okay.
He won't say anything and I won't say--
Damn it.
There. Let me see.
Now you'll get to hold it. Like this.
Like this.
No!
Sverre? Now. you aim the gun at Ellen.
And then. you shoot her.
Let's aim.
A little higher.
And then. you pull the trigger.
Pull the trigger.
-One. two. three.
-No…
-Can't you do it?
-Try again.
So I'll know that I can trust you. Okay?
Okay.
One more time. One. two…
Good.
Police Operations Center.
Yes. hello?
This is Detective Tom Waaler.
A colleague has been killed.
I had to shoot the perpetrator
in self-defense.
I'm in a cabin out in Nordmarka.
Sending coordinates now.
We need Forensics here at once.
Hi. Harry.
-What's Waaler doing here?
-He was first on the scene.
Get him out of here.
A known perpetrator
is lying dead in there.
-Don't go inside.
-You have to get him out of here!
Don't go in there.
Just leave it the fuck alone.
I'm sorry. Harry.
I was too late.
Open your eyes.
You see. it's a simple pattern.
A red guiding star.
A five-pointed devil's cross
will show the way.
I get that the thing with Ellen was hard.
but you have to move on.
I can't keep covering for you.
If I give you the authority
to investigate Waaler.
you'll be doing it on your own.
Harry. we've got a murder just now.
and I need you at work. sober.
It's the police.
Lisbeth is missing.
The premiere is in 11 days.
You haven't made a single step forward?
We have our best investigators
on the case.
This is for us.
He wants us to know.
he wants to be admired.
At the same time.
he's not giving us anything solid.
What if I agree to join
that project of yours?
You carry out a mission. alone.
without asking any questions.
You'll need to burn some bridges.
That's what we do.
We take out the garbage.
Come. and I'll lead the way.
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friiis